content/integrations/nodejs.md, before:

---
title: "Datadog-NodeJS Integration"
integration_title: "NodeJS"
kind: integration
doclevel: basic
description: "Send custom metrics from your Node.js services via DogStatsD or our API."
---

{{< img src="integrations/nodejs/nodejs_graph.png" alt="Node JS graph" >}}

## Overview

Connect your Node.js applications to Datadog to:

* Visualize their performance
* Correlate their performance with the rest of your applications
* Monitor any relevant metric

## Setup
### Configuration

The Node.js integration enables you to monitor any custom metric by instrumenting a few lines of code. 
For instance, you can have a metric that returns the number of page views or the time of any function call. 
For additional information about the Node.js integration, please refer to this [guide on submitting metrics](https://docs.datadoghq.com/guides/metrics/)
For advanced usage, please refer to the [documentation in the repository](https://github.com/joybro/node-dogstatsd)

1. Install the library with npm:
```
npm install node-dogstatsd
```

2. Start instrumenting your code:
{{< highlight javascript>}}
var StatsD = require('node-dogstatsd').StatsD;
var dogstatsd = new StatsD();

// Increment a counter.
dogstatsd.increment('page.views')
{{< /highlight >}}

### Validation
Go to the Metrics explorer page and see that it just works!

Commit message:

use hot-shots in the example

content/integrations/nodejs.md, after:

---
title: "Datadog-NodeJS Integration"
integration_title: "NodeJS"
kind: integration
doclevel: basic
description: "Send custom metrics from your Node.js services via DogStatsD or our API."
---

{{< img src="integrations/nodejs/nodejs_graph.png" alt="Node JS graph" >}}

## Overview

Connect your Node.js applications to Datadog to:

* Visualize their performance
* Correlate their performance with the rest of your applications
* Monitor any relevant metric

## Setup
### Configuration

The Node.js integration enables you to monitor any custom metric by instrumenting a few lines of code.
For instance, you can have a metric that returns the number of page views or the time of any function call.
For additional information about the Node.js integration, please refer to this [guide on submitting metrics](https://docs.datadoghq.com/guides/metrics/)
For advanced usage, please refer to the [documentation in the repository](https://github.com/joybro/node-dogstatsd)

1. Install hot-shots, an open source DogStatsD client, with npm:
```
npm install hot-shots
```

2. Start instrumenting your code:
{{< highlight javascript>}}
var StatsD = require('hot-shots');
var dogstatsd = new StatsD();

// Increment a counter.
dogstatsd.increment('page.views')
{{< /highlight >}}

### Validation
Go to the Metrics explorer page and see that it just works!
